The Joe Rogan experience.
But, but it's a terrible thing. And obviously with, I mean, with these, uh,
school shootings and things that are going on here at the moment, I mean,
this is obviously, um, one of the things I watched your podcast the other day,
where you were discussing it with the latest one with the Florida. And, uh,
and I think the, you know,
the sort of in a away bafflement going on in this society about this is
understandable.
Yeah. The, I mean,
it's the unimaginable horror of being involved in that situation.
Your mind is just not prepared to cope with that. I mean,
maybe if you are a soldier and if you experience combat exactly.
And you know how to, uh,
stay calm in a firefighter because you've been in a bunch of them,
but for the average person, I mean,
it's one of the reasons why eye witness testimony,
it's one of the worst pieces of evidence you could ever get, including, I mean,
about, about basically everything about fist fights to.
You know, anything. Oh yeah, no, I mean,
we all have examples in our own lives of seeing, you know,
friends who've been through the same thing.
We know that they burn through the same thing and yet they have two totally
different versions of.
All course of what happened. I mean, that's, that's a real problem, but.
Now you have this thing here where, I mean, in some ways,
even worse than we do of,
of the search to notch it up for your own political side yes.
Or against the enemy. Yeah. It's the same thing with the Twitter,
the Twitter point, but the, I mean, this,
this obscene glee that on after any terrorist attack in Europe,
but I think also here as well, the attempt to, to,
to immediately call it for the other side or for your side or whatever. Um,
and to, to try to use terrible events as a way to justify
whatever your own team is. Yes. Um, I, I have, I,
I find this amazing with the gun debate here and I would find it amazing coming
from a different society on it,
but the way to sort of notch it up for one side or the other in it, and,
uh, know it's, you've got a real problem on.
This one. I've been watching a lot of it, uh,
from the perspective of the gun owners, right? The NRA members and the,
the people that want to the idea of having guns and
even of arming teachers.
And you're looking at their perspective on it and their perspective on it is all
about their rights, all about the constitution, all about the bill of rights,
all about protecting the second amendment, all about it's gun ownership,
being taken away, gun ownership under attack,
the NRA under attack they're coming after our guns.
And this is this constant battle of ideas. That's on Twitter,
not addressing the actual issue. I mean.
I, sorry. No, it's okay. I was gonna say, I mean, watching this thing, uh,
arming teachers.
Yeah. That's insane. I mean, this is Samuel Jackson had a great quote about it,
but you mean it's, you know, he, uh, he put a it on Twitter.
Like someone tell a who's never been in a gun fight. The problems of arming,
a bunch of teachers, right? Yeah.
Some somebody said, said someone.
Who's been in a gun fight, please tell yeah. A in.
A fight. Somebody said, anyone who thinks it's a good idea,
giving teachers guns has clearly never seen one,
try to use an overhead projector. Ah.
Yeah. There's there's Samuel Jackson look at that 306,000
likes. So, you know, it was an effective tweet.
<laugh> this is the world we're living in. You check, check the number.
It was only, yeah, you got three tweets. It can't be true. Nobody likes.
Yeah. I, uh, I, I thought there was a,
a very pertinent one a few years ago in New York on fifth when, um,
somebody shot their colleague and, um,
outside the office came back as disgruntled work, shot the colleague and,
uh, locally,
there was some policemen around the corner and they came out and started firing
at the guy who'd done. It ended up wounding about 11 and pedestrian.
Like, well, you would wouldn't you of course. I mean, I'm not saying by the way,
but we have, we have our own problems. I mean,
this is a big problem for America. What, I.
Can't have more guns than we have people.
I mean, I completely understand why the amendment exists.
And I think it's a very good idea for the time.
And I think it a very understandable idea to hold onto it now. But, um,
but why can't people say, for instance, I mean,
we all have abstract ideas we have to hold onto, but we,
and we all in our countries have like weird things that other people don't
understand. I mean,
might think it's odd to have a hereditary constitutional Monarch for instance,
and right. Uh, it, it is weird. It's a great way to put it. It strange. And,
uh, if you are starting from now, you might not do that. Um, uh, but,
but clearly with the gun ownership thing, it is,
we are willing to take bad things happening quite often
because we want to hold onto the second amendment. Well.
The second amendment has been around forever.
The bad things happening quite often is really from Columbine and on. I mean,
there was a few of them before there was the Austin, Texas, uh, but, uh,
tower shootings. But it.
Seems like, I mean, again, I mean, just,
it's such an obvious point and I don't underst sound like I say,
it's snotty Brit, who's saying something about America.
That's not at all welcome, but it seems obvious that you just,
you could do a lot more damage with a semi-automatic rifle than you
can with a knife. And most people, we see this in the terrorism as well.
There are really committed terrors who don't commit acts of violence,
unless they can get hold of a, of a, the means to do it right.
Because we often think, well, why don't you just like go out with a knife?
Some people do,
but most people actually want to go out in that way in what they see as being a
blaze of glory. Right?
So they like stopping them,
having the means of getting that very easily seems to me very obvious,
but that isn't to say that, I mean, of course,
I think you made a point the other day. It's like saying, if you say,
who has a gun is part of the problem is then obviously not because it's like
saying everyone's got a truck is a part of the problem, but right. But there is,
there are obviously two things.
One is the psychological and whatever the social issues are that cause this to
keep happening. And that, that is obviously very,
very important to try to get to the root of,
but you can get to the root of that or try to get to the root of that.
And also recognize that people having access to some of the weapons
they have access to in this country must be a part of the problem.
It has to be. And it, there also the, uh,
idea that you should just be able to go out and buy a gun
without really understanding how a gun works at all. Yeah.
And which is exactly how you do it. I got my first handgun license in 1994. Um,
that's when I bought my first handgun and I just went and bought a handgun.
Right. They did a background check on me, that's it? I mean, I went to a range.
They showed me with a safe is point at this, put the earphones on,
make sure you don't blow ears out. Bang, bang, bang.
And then you leave with a gun. I mean, once your background checks clear,
they find out you're not a criminal. There's not much to it. There's a,
there's a giant problem with that. If you wanna drive an automobile,
you have to show that you understand the laws, right. You have to understand,
uh, you have to sit with an expert's to sit there and drive the instructor.
They have to go through it with you. They have to watch your movements.
They have to watch you make turns, right?
They have to wouldn't wouldn't you imagine that it would be a good idea to have
some sort of a clinical evaluation of a person that's gonna gonna buy a gun.
And here's another thing.
There was an article recently that was saying contrary to popular belief.
Most school shootings are not committed by people who are mentally ill. Well,
that's a stupid thing to say. You know why? Because if you're,
you're committing a school shooting, right. You're mentally ill. Exactly. Okay.
Period. Then on top of that, what they're ignoring conveniently,
and this is another headline thing, psych medications, right?
These people are almost entirely on some form
of psychiatric medication, whether it is anti-anxiety pills,
whether it's anti antidepressants, whether they're, they're all,
I'm not saying that correlation equals causation. I'm not saying that.
But to say that they're not, this is just a. This is click bait headline.
Exactly. They're mentally ill, a hundred percent, 100% of 'em are mentally ill.
There's.
There's a, uh, uh, um,
a conservative commentator in the UK called Peter Hitchens,
who always makes a point after Islamist terrorist attacks in Europe.
That there's a large number of them,
as well as other types of attack who seem to be on some kind of medication. Yes.
And my point is always, I'm very, very happy to have that conversation.
I think we need to have that conversation and we also have to have the other
parts of it as well. Yes. So you're right. It's the same here. I,
I can't see why we can't have all of this. Look.
It's the same thing that we were talking about earlier. It's these idea sports,
right? These wars people don't want to give up their idea.
They don't want to give up any ground whatsoever on their second amendment
rights, whether it's owning a 50 caliber tank gun,
or whether it's, uh, having a, uh, a gun for home safety or for hunting. Yeah.
They don't wanna give up anything. And they feel like it's a slippery slope.
The people that I follow online that are tweeting about this on a regular basis,
and you can go to a lot of them, like, uh, they're making videos about it,
Dana lash. And, uh, Colin is actually,
his name is, it's not Colin's co lion co lion noir.
N O I R. He's very variable cool about it. And I'm, I'm reading all this stuff.
It's like,
all anyone's taking into account is that this idea that they're coming after
your rights, right. And,
and emphasizing the idea of a good person with a gun that can
protect people in these terrible situations, which can happen as well. But what,
what we have to address, that's not what we're talking about.
We have to address how the do these crazy people get guns. Why,
why are so many people on mental health medications? Yeah. Yeah.
Well, that's a huge, it's a huge problem. I can't understand.
We always have this wanting to have the conversation about it,
but there's very little done on it. That's one thing I'm very struck by this.
We, we, uh, we, we have in all our countries, I mean,
slipped into a very weird attitude towards this type of medication.
Yes. Very weird. Very,
just very accepting of something that radically alters the way your mind works.
Right.
And I, I don't know.
Maybe it's maybe it's cuz there's not an incentive drug companies,
obviously don't have an incentive quite the opposite, uh, to look into it.
But it's another example of the,
a set of set of things we should be thinking about at the moment and looking at
which we just don't, why don't we,
cause it's sort of shut down because we shut it down ourselves. I, uh,
I think it's, it's just such a range of issues. This is the case with,
and it's always the same thing. It's always that if you address,
is the question difficult as it might be,
you are attacking an individual who might suffer from it. Yeah.
Who might be upset by us addressing the question. Um, I mean, I,
I have a lot of suspicions about all sorts of things. I'm a very, you know,
skeptical person as it were about things that I'm told.
So I'd like to look into, into things. I'm amazed that the number of things in,
in our societies that we just don't discuss and they're all the things that we
ought to be discussing, um, issues like mental health issues, uh,
issues that have to do with the social presumptions that are going on left right
and center at the moment where you're not meant to discuss things that are apart
for anything else. Very, very interesting and very important. And.